# I am currently working to upload my portfolio projects. Projects with a percent symbol (%) were completed as part of my Professional Certificate in Data Science and Analytics program through Massachusetts Institute of Technology via Emeritus (November 2023 - May 2024). 
# You can view my Professional Certificate in Data Science and Analytics here:  <a href="https://certificates.emeritus.org/c4131fb3-f406-46bd-b42a-e0e23744a303#gs.ax1sxo">https://certificates.emeritus.org/c4131fb3-f406-46bd-b42a-e0e23744a303#gs.ax1sxo</a>

# **Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning Projects**

*   **Clustering Algorithms.** Used Python to apply k-means clustering, agglomerative hierarchical clustering (AHC), and other clustering methods to real-world problems such as fraud detection and developing clustered promotions and marketing approaches. Created dendrograms to visualize hierarchical clustering.%
*   **Collaborative Filtering for Recommender Systems.** Used Python to apply collaborative filtering to real-world recommender systems to predict user ratings for movies and songs. Identified and interpreted archetypes. Recentered data and applied ensemble learning models as well.%
*   **Classification and Regression Trees.** Used Scikit-Learn along with other Python library functions to generate classification and regression tree models for predicting loan defaults, survival rates, number of rentals and attendance given specific conditions. Maximized prediction accuracy with cost-complexity pruning. Used Gini coefficients and OSR<sup>2</sup> to determine accuracy of predictions.%
*   **Ensemble Learning Models.** Used Scikit-Learn along with other Python library functions to generate bagging, random forest, gradient tree boosting, and XGBoost (with cross-validation combined with grid or random search hyperparameter optimization) methods to create ensemble learning models to analyze internet search advertising components and their effect on click-through rate (CTR), establish loan default chances, and to predict whether cancer is benign or malignant. Evaluated models based on MAE, RMSE, and OSR<sup>2</sup>.%
*   **Mitigation for Fairness and Bias Issues in Data-Driven Models.** Used Scikit-Learn along with other Python library functions to employ methods (such True Positive Rate Equalization) to identify and resolve fairness and bias issues (including working with protected attributes with legal restrictions) in machine learning models.%
*   **Neural Network Models for Binary Classification from Tabular Data.** Used TensorFlow and Scikit-Learn along with other Python library functions (including Keras preprocessing layers) to create NN models that predict whether a person has heart disease or an abnormal electrocardiogram from multiple types of independent variables.%
*   **Convolutional Neural Network (Deep Learning) Models for Image Classification.** Used TensorFlow and other Python library functions (including Keras convolutional blocks) as well as data augmentation and transfer learning to create CNN models to classify grayscale and color images of handwritten numerals, ASL hand gestures for letters, and fashion items into the proper categories.%
*   **Natural Language Processing Models for Binary and Categorical Classification.** Used TensorFlow and other Python library functions to create models to vectorize song lyrics in order to accurately predict the genre of the song. Created models to vectorize natural text movie reviews in order to accurately predict whether the sentiment captured in the review was positive or negative. Developed models to interpret the intent of natural text airline flight queries. Used word embeddings and leveraged pre-trained GloVe embeddings.%
*   **Natural Language Processing Models to Determine Intent and Word-to-Slot Classification.** Used TensorFlow and other Python library functions as well as transformers, word embeddings, and positional embeddings to create models to vectorize, interpret, and translate natural text flight queries to structured query language (SQL).%
*   **Audit and Interpret Black Box Models.** Used Shapley values and integrated gradients to audit and interpret what AI models are doing to predict the final outputs. Determined that a model that decided the presence of bamboo in the picture was the key factor for determining if the picture is a panda needed to be adjusted. Decided a medical imaging model that is looking at the hospital-specific metal alignment tokens in the corner of the scans rather than the actual scanning area to determine if a patient has a condition needed to be reworked to be based on more legitimate algorithms.%
  
# **Operations Research/Optimization Projects**

* **Linear Optimization Models.** Used Excel and the Solver add-in to model how many units of various types of materials to contract for from each available supplier in order to minimize cost. Modeled the number of units of each product to produce given limited resources in order to maximize profit.%
* **Mixed-Integer Optimization Models.** Used the Gurobi Optimizer library functions and other Python library functions to solve mixed-integer optimization problems like maximizing revenue and determining when to offer promotions given business constraints like fixed price ladders.%
* **Sponsored Internet Search Advertising Models.** Used Excel, the Solver add-in, the Gurobi Optimizer library functions, and other Python library functions to model how to maximize revenues from ads generated by companies bidding for ad space.%
* **Network Models for Resource Flow Problems.** Used the Gurobi Optimizer library functions and other Python library functions to solve resource flow problems such as how to efficiently deliver humanitarian aid to war-torn regions and how to ship materials accounting for multiple hubs and final destinations.%
  
# **Statistics/Evaluation Projects**

* **Statistical Analyses of Real-World Applications Problems.** Used Python to compute descriptive statistics and aggregate data (including an example of Simpson’s paradox). Calculated sufficient inventory for retail scenarios. Developed prescriptive models. Calculated aggregated risk and incorporated risk pooling. Computed and analyzed covariance and correlation and interpreted their effect on the behavior of variables. Normalized, scaled, and cleaned data.%
* **Regression Models.** Used Python to develop and interpret linear, multiple linear, and logistic regression models. Evaluated models for underfitting and overfitting issues. Used MSE and r<sup>2</sup> to determine the accuracies of linear and multiple linear regression models. Calculated logistic regression model accuracies using confusion matrices.%
* <a href="https://www.exeter.ac.uk/research/groups/education/pmej/pome28/Goodwin%20EXPLORING%20THE%20RELATIONSHIP%20BETWEEN%20TEACHERS%20IMAGES.doc">**Nationwide Large-Scale Survey Research**</a>**.** Used SPSS to compute statistics (including descriptive statistics, correlations, <em>t</em>-tests, ANOVA tests, &Chi;<sup>2</sup>-tests, factor analysis, Cronbach’s &alpha;) exploring the relationship between mathematics teachers’ images of mathematics and their knowledge of the history of mathematics as determined by a grant-funded, multi-year, nationwide, large-scale (N > 4,600) research study. Published papers and presented the findings at local, regional, national, and international conferences.
* **Evaluations of the Effectiveness of a** <a href="https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/10511970802354527"> **Technology Intervention**</a> **and** <a href="https://maa.org/press/periodicals/convergence/the-unique-effects-of-including-history-in-college-algebra-introduction"> **Module Inclusion**</a>**.** Used SPSS and Excel to compute statistics (including descriptive statistics, correlations, <em>t</em>-tests, ANOVA tests, &Chi;<sup>2</sup>-tests, Cohen’s <em>d</em>) to determine the fruitfulness of using the ALEKS program and including mathematics history modules in a College Algebra course. Published papers (nationally and internationally) and presented findings at national conference.
* **Research Project for Undergraduate Physics Education.** Used qualitative and quantitative methods (including field notes, descriptive statistics, correlations, <em>t</em>-tests, ANOVA tests, &Chi;<sup>2</sup>-tests, Cohen’s <em>d</em>) to evaluate the efficacy of using an active learning emporium model on an undergraduate calculus-based physics course. Exposed disparities in student experience by gender and race/ethnicity. Presented locally and published a <a href="https://www.oak.edu/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/jlas-sp14.pdf">paper</a>.
* <a href="https://www.oak.edu/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/jlas-sp14.pdf"> **Evaluation of Factors Influencing a Reform Initiative**</a>**.** Used SPSS to compute statistics (including descriptive statistics, correlations, <em>t</em>-tests, ANOVA tests, &Chi;<sup>2</sup>-tests) to determine which interventions and demographics had the most effect on implementing a grant-funded mathematics education reform initiative. Published a paper on the findings.
* <a href="https://nsuworks.nova.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1032&context=fdla-journal">**Evaluation of a Revolutionary Curriculum**</a>**.** Used SPSS and Excel to compute statistics (including descriptive statistics, correlations, <em>t</em>-tests, ANOVA tests, &Chi;<sup>2</sup>-tests, Cohen’s <em>d</em>) to determine the effectiveness of a self-paced, challenging, process-based, online mathematics curriculum for gifted middle school mathematics students and the connections between the students’ images of the curriculum and their images of mathematics as a discipline. Published several papers on the findings.
  
# **Miscellaneous Projects**

* <a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/277828808_Interference_Filters_for_Thermo-photovoltaic_Applications">**Interference Filters for Thermo-Photovoltaic Applications**</a>**.** Increased the theoretical efficiency of an interference filter for thermo-photovoltaic applications. Used MATLAB to perform Monte-Carlo simulations to test the proposed solution. Real-world problem posed by Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory (KAPL) as part of a US Workshop on Mathematical Problems in Industry. Published paper and presented findings.
* **Complex Dynamical Systems Model of a Pandemic.** Used Northwestern’s multi-agent programmable modeling environment Netlogo to model the spread of the Spanish Flu of 1918. Field-tested model with students and presented model locally.
* **Generating Models from Industry Externships.** Co-PI on a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant-funded project that created mathematics learning modules for K-12 students based on local industry externships (such as predicting part-time staffing needs for the United Parcel Service, Inc. (UPS) hub in Chelmsford, Massachusetts, <a href="https://faculty.uml.edu/mstick/92.122/material/MAST_June_8_2004.pdf">modeling the geometry of the Methuen Walmart endcaps</a>, and determining the likelihood of hitting a homer at the Lowell Spinners baseball park).
* **Algorithmically-Generated Music.** Used Netlogo to create <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Melody-Dicer/dp/0935474099">Mozart’s Melody Dicer</a>, and to algorithmically generate music using permutations, a sine curve, digits of pi, and the Dragon’s Curve fractal featured in the “Jurassic Park” novel. Presented locally.
* **Calculus Application Problems for Architecture, Humanities, and Social Sciences Fields.** Used MAPLE to create a workbook for Calculus laboratory classes for architecture, humanities, and social science majors. Published the workbook, which was used at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and presented the work at a national conference.
* **Cusp Catastrophe Model for Scientific Paradigms.** Used qualitative mathematics to model the paradigm shift from Positivism to Post-Positivism. Created custom graphics for publication of the model. Published papers and presented at local conferences about this model.
* **Interactive Widgets for K-16 Student Exploration of Mathematics.** Used proprietary programming languages for several companies to construct widgets for students of all ages to explore various mathematics concepts and processes. Published a <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Elements-Algebra-Visual-Course/dp/B001BKOW34">book</a> and several papers about these systems as well as presented at local, regional, and national conferences.
